# Running the program

The program can be run with or without a user interface. Using the interface does make the game run slower but
can be useful for visualising an agent's strategies.

The file **run.py** is meant for running the game. There are two methods, _runInfinitely_ and _runSequence_.

1. _runInfinitely_: runs it on a random sequence until it loses
2. _runSequence_: runs it on a fixed sequence loaded from a file (like sequences/test1.txt)

Either method can be run using some default weights or by providing custom weights (note that the weights must
be a list with at least 5 elements).


# Running the optimization algorithms

1. Hill climbing: this method can be run by running from the method _hill_climbing_optimization_ in **tests.py**. It will
attempt to produce some weights that on average outperform the default weights

2. Genetic algorithm: For this, one can simply run the script _genetic.py_

# Results

## Evaluating weights

In order to obtain metrics similar to those seen in the report, one can use the method _compare_weights_ in **tests.py**
One needs to edit the list _best_weights_ with weights found through hill climbing or the genetic algorithm. g


## Graphs

The graphs from the report can be generated by running the __plotevo.py__ script.

# Using pypy

pypy is a faster alternative to running the application in python. It is recommended to use pypy when running
the hill climbing algorithm or the genetic algorithm. For simply letting the agent play the game,
using the default python interpreter is sufficient.




